This is how to set up your very first coding project using positron in less than 10 minutes.
The first step is to create a folder and open it.
You can do that using the terminal commands or just the normal file picker structure.
You'll be prompted to pick your python interpreter.
Step 2 is to install your commonly used packages like shiny and pandas using the pip command.
Once those have installed, you can then use shiny create to create your scaffold of the
shiny app.
This will set up your app.py with starter UI and server code.
Step number 3 is to run it.
In positron, you can click the play button on the file itself, and it will automatically
run your shiny app in the viewer pane, or you can run this command from the terminal.
Using the flag for reload ensures that any edits you make in the app.py folder will show
up immediately.
And then for step 4, edit your file and watch it update in real time.
Anytime you make a change and save the file, it will automatically reload in the app.
And then for step 5, you can drop in a breakpoint for any debugging you need.
Click on the left of the line number to set up a breakpoint, then click the dropdown arrow
next to run, select debug shiny app.
The app will pause right where you placed it, and now you can step through the lines,
inspect variables, and see the call stack.
Leave any questions in the comments below and follow along for more of our data science
content.